---
layout: post
title: Week 3 -  Open Source 
---

This week we presented our first Open Source project, which was a Firefox browser extension. My group and I decided to do a light switch extension that Th detects the time of day. If it is day time, the decoration (a sun) that lights up the website is turned on. During the night time, the decoration (a moon) is turned off. The extension works both automatically (the computer will periodically check the user time) and manually. WE were able to finish the project on time and present it in frron of the class.

Collaborating with other people was a different experience for me. I never worked on a CS project with other people, and I found that communicating was the most important part. We all have different schedules and did not have time to physically meet up in person. WE found that communicating ideas and thought was most effective way was through Slack. It was really interesting working with two other people on the project. Each of us had different skill levels and offered something different to the project. We divided the work amongst us based on our skill levels. It was good to work with other people becasue I was able to learn new skills from them. 

Through this project I was able to learn new things. For instance, I was able to learn more about Github. I used github for a class prior to this one. However, this was the first time working on a project on Github with two other contributors. Learning about pull requests and how to make contribution to a project was new for me. Also, I did not have any experience with JavaScript, HTML, or CSS. After this project, I am confortable with reading JavaScript and understanding was the code is doing. One thing I learned about myself was how I work with others on projects like this one. I enjoy working with other and getting feedback on what I am doing. 

I thought the projects all of the groups did were very good and well done. Most of the projects can be used in real life and are useful. Seeing other group present and listening to how they did their projects together was interesting. A project I thought that I really enojed was StudyBuddy by Group 12. The concept was very useful, and most college students could actually use. While Group 12 was presenting, I was thinking of ways I could contribute to the project. Another project I thought was an interesting concept was Table of Contents. The concept is useful and I could see myself contributing to the project and also using it.  
