---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Standup reports, Contributing to OpenFoodFacts, and Wikipedia
---

### Standup Reports
On lecture Wednesday, we had group standup reports. Most groups discussed the projects they will be contributing to this semester and the progress they have made so far. I thought all of the groups are working on really interesting projects. A really interesting thing the I observed during the standup reports was that there are different ways that groups are communicating with the admin of the project. My group and I are communicating with them solely through their slack channel. Other groups are emailing, slacking, and using disscussion forums on the project website. One group also mentioned that they had the opportunity to video chat with some of the admin to discuss ways to contribute. I though that was very interesting that every group had their own way of reaching out and staying in contact with the admins of the project. Another thing I found interesting is that gtwo groups are doing the same project, but have totally different ideas on how to contribute. Even though they are working on the same projects, each group has different skill sets allowing them to get involved in the project in different ways. Overall, it was very exciting and interesting to see what other groups are working on and their prigress.

### Contributing to OpenFoodFacts
On Friday, my group members and I made our first pull request. A week ago we opened an issue regarding documentation and lack there of installation instructions for beginners. On Thursday we had a group meeting and working on creating installation instruction. Then we did a pull request, which was improved. We did go through a few challenges while doing this. When we first did the pull request, the admin stated that some of the instruction we included were a bit out dated. We had to update some of our files. After that, our pull request was improved. However, there was a merge conflict. At first we had trouble understanding why there was a merge conflict even though our changes were improved. After an hour of searching for a reason, we saw that one of the files was updated on the master branch and not our branch. We quickly solved that issue and merged our contributions. My group and I will meet again this following week to look at more issues we can solve. 

### Wikipedia
I have been using Wikipedia for acedemic use all my life. I believe it is an underapreciated resource that is very useful for education, research, and life in general. I have only successfully contributed Wikipedia once for this class. I tried contributing to certain pages that had resitricted editing acesss. However, I was able to contribute to a page about a movie I had just recently watched and was knowledgable about. I find that to contribute to Wikipedia, a person needs a considerable amount of knowledge about the subject. Overall, Wikipedia is a very useful resource, when it comes to research papers for school, and general life knowledge. 
