---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Project Selections and Remote Learning.
---
 
 ###  Remote Learning

This was the first full week of have online classes as a result of the uncertain social climate. Remote classes and the new routine has been an adjustment. Getting into the flow of classes while doing classes from home defiantly has it's challenges.  This change has been easier for some classes more than others. Open Source Software Developement is one of those classes in which online classes works well. THis class is more relient on group work and computer work rather than being lecture heavy. It will be interesting to see how this semester online goes. 
 
 ###  Project Selections

My group and I (group 2) finilized our project for our semester contributions. WE decieded on OpenFoodFacts. When trying to pick a project, we were listing the pros and cons of each project out loud. There were a few projects that seemed very interesting and something we would want to be involved in. However, most of those projects either did not have a welcoming community or seemed to advance for first time contributors. When discussing the idea of contributing to OpenFoodFacts, we were brainstorming ways we can contribute to these projects. Some questions we sked ourselves were, is this a project we are interested in? Does it have a welcoming community? Do we as a group have the skills to work on this project? And lastly, how can we get our foot in the door and contribute? After analyzing all of these questions, we decided that this project matched our needs. 
 
OpenFoodFacts aligned with our interests we outline in our TakingStocks repository. One of my goals was to make this a learning process. I wanted to learn more skills. OpenFoodFacts is in HTML. I never took a Web Developement course. I started a Code Academy lesson for HTML. My groupmate Jennifer suggested I watch a YouTube video to help with learning HTML. OpenFoodFacts will give me the opportunity in learning a new scripting language while also contributing to an Open source project. My group members Jennifer and Lucas have HTML and front-end web development experience. Jennifer wanted to expand her sills in HTML and JavaScript. Lucas wanted to refresh and reacquaint himself with Web-development. THis open source project provides us with the opportunity to expand our skillset. 
 
 ###  Contributing and Getting Involved

We are still in the early stages of contributing. We joined the projects slack channel and are eager to reach out to them. We plan on fixing small issues first before we get more involved. We also have other ideas on how to make bigger contributions. We had an idea to add tags to the food pictures. For instance, if a food is halal, kosher, organic, etc., there will be a tag indicating that. Also, we saw that the Code of Conduct is buried in their website. We wanted to make a code of conduct more easily readable and accessible in the GitHub repository. We are still thinking of ways to get involved, and we plan on getting involved in the comming weeks.
