---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Round 2 of Group Stand-up reports and Progress
---

### Group Stand-up Reports
On Monday's class we had another round of group stand up reports. Through the stand-up reports we had the opportunity to hear the progress various groups have made on their contributions to their chosen projects. I thought the different approaches each group took was interesting. Some groups were making new pages for the project’s websites, adding lessons and tutorials to the site, and other translating the site. I also started translating the website as a part of my individual contributions. 

My group discussed our progress during the stand-up report. Some of the progress we made was our pull request getting merged for our first contribution regarding documentation. It was exciting to see something that we created be a part of the project. Even though it was a small change, it was nice to see we helped improve the project for new open source developers.  Also, we were assigned an open issue regarding a feature request. The feature is adding Dark Mode to the website. By the stand-up report, we had already finished the feature and opened a pull request. At that point we had no feedback from the community about of pull request. I've noticed that the community admins are slow to approve and comment on pull requests. 

### Progress
My group and I had a meeting Friday regarding our last contributions for the project for this semester and to discuss the final presentation. We were assigned to present this coming Wednesday. Although at first we were worried this was a little early for us, we were reassured that we had made good progress when we did the stand-up reports. Also, I am still translating the site. It is long and hard to translate the site. I didn't realize how bad my Bengali has gotten over time. Translating each indivduals file is taking a long time as I have to double check if everything I am translating makes sense to a native speaker. Last week, my translations were added to the site. It was nice to see that I made an impact on the website that thousands of people use. 

This whole experience has been really exciting and new. I learned a lot from contributing to OpenFoodFacts, and I plan on continuing working on the project after the semester is done.
