---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Verizon Media Presentation and OpenFoodFacts
---
### Cathedral and the Bazaar
The essay Cathedral and the Bazaar by Eric S. Raymond was a very interesting read. At first, I found the language and terms being used to be a little difficult as I was unfamiliar with a lot of verbadium he is using in the piece. This caused me to constantly lose focus on the main points of each sections. After reading it through carefully, I found the article to be very insightful and interesting. A quote that I really liked that was discussed in class was "Every good work of Software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch." I think when the developer is interested in a project and it is their "passion Project" they are more invested to get good results from the project. I think every developer, including myself, can relate to this.

### Verizon Media Presentation: Gil Yehuda
On Wednesday, we had a guest speaker, Gil Yehuda, from Verizon Media come talk to us. Prior to this lecture, I wasn’t fully aware of what Verizon media as a whole was. I knew of the phone and internet provider Verizon but was unaware of Verizon Media. I really enjoyed this lecture as Mr. Yehuda explained how we as developers working on Open Source sources can use our skills at any company. He explained that we can use open source to improve our resumes. On resumes software developers often talk about projects they have created or been a part of. WE can put Open Source projects that we've contributed to or are actively involved in on our resumes. He also went on to explain how being an OpenSource software developer improves a person’s coding skills. THe reasoning for this is the fact that our code is public. Making the code public makes a developer to clean up and approve the efficiency of their code as it is open for the world to see and critique. Mr. Yehuda’s lecture was really insightful and provided us ways to get involved in OpenSource projects and how to use OpenSource to get us jobs in the future. 

### OpenFoodFacts and our progress
On Monday we installed the development enviornment on our local machines. THis took a long time to do. We couldn’t find the documentation that explains how exactly to install the enviornment and what we needed to install. After about an hour of searching, we figured out of to install the environment. Installing the enviornment itself took approximately 45 minutes to do. Due to the struggle of finding how to install the enviornment, we decided to create an issue about the lack of instructions for this. We want to create a Guide on Installation and Contributing for Beginners to this project. THe issue was approved and assigned to us to complete. This next week, we are going to work on the Guide. Also, we reached out to the community. The admin is very reseptive to questions and is open to help us get started on contributing. We plan to work on a coding issue this week after a group meeting. 


